In this activity, we will be
evaluating the decision tree model
we created in the KNIME
classification hands-on.
First, we will create a confusion
matrix to determine the accuracy
of the decision tree model.
Next, we will use highlighting and
a scatter plot to analyze
the classification errors.
Let's begin.
First, let's open the Classification
workflow that we built in the previous
hands-on.
In the top-left of KNIME
is a KNIME Explorer.
Double-click on the Classification,
under LOCAL.
Next, we'll create a confusion
matrix to analyze the accuracy
of our decision tree model.
To do this,
we'll add the Scorer node to the canvas.
Connect the output of Decision Tree
Predictor, to the input of Scorer.
Double-click on Scorer.
We'll use the default values, so click OK.
Next, run the workflow.
Now, let's view the confusion matrix.
I can see the accuracy as 80.282%.
At the top, I can see that it
accurately predicted 76 values for
humidity_low and 95 for humidity_not_low.
It inaccurately predicted 24 values for
humidty_low and
18 for humidty_not_low,
for an error of 19.718%.
Close this.
Next, we use an interactive table to
look at the values that were incorrectly
predicted.
We'll add the Interactive Table
to the canvas.
We'll connect this to the output
of Decision Tree Predictor,
run the workflow and view the table.
The right two columns have the real value
for low_humidity and the prediction.
For some of these rows, we can tell
that the prediction was not correct.
For example, in row ten, And in row 17.
Let's leave the table view open,
and go back to the workflow.
Next, we'll add the Scatter Plot
nodes to the workflow.
Connect this to the output
of Decision Tree Predictor.
Execute the workflow, and
view the scatter plot.
We'll select row 17, and
choose, Hilite Selected.
Go back to the scatter plot,
and we see this particular value
is highlighted in the plot.
We could choose another
row from the table, and
highlight it again to see
its place in the plot.
Let's choose row ten.
We can do this for
values that were incorrectly predicted,
to find any patterns for further analysis.